.TH unitconv 1 "March 9, 2012" "XCrySDen" "XCrySDen"

.SH NAME
unitconv \- simple energy and length units converter

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B unitconv 
.RI [ unit ]
\fIvalue\fR
.br
.B  unitconv 
.RI [ unit ]
\fIexpression\fR

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBunitconv\fR is a simple energy and length units converter (written
in Tcl). It is a utility program of \fBxcrysden\fR package
(\fIhttp://www.xcrysden.org/\fR).

.SH ENERGY UNITS

The following \fBenergy units\fR are supported.  The following list
contain the "\fIunit\fR -- description" pairs, where the \fIunit\fR is to
be specified on the command line.

.TP 4
\fBau\fR -- Hartree  
.TP 
\fBry\fR -- Rydberg
'TP
\fBev\fR -- eV (electron volt)
.TP
\fBkjm\fR -- kJ/mol
.TP
\fBkj\fR -- kJ
'TP
\fBkcalm\fR -- kcal/mol
'TP
\fBkcal\fR -- kcal

.SH LENGTH UNITS

The following \fBlength units\fR are supported (usage as above):

.TP 4
\fBangs\fR -- Angstrom
.TP 
\fBbohr\fR -- Bohr radius
'TP
\fBm\fR -- meter

.SH EXAMPLES

Convert a value from eV to other energy units:

\fBunitconv ev 3.25\fR

Calculate an expression (values in Rydberg unit) and convert to other
energy units (note that expression must be quoted):

\fBunitconv ry "-103.134567 - (-240.691356 - -2*17.543471)/2"\fR 

In expression also mathematical functions available in \fBtclsh\fR can be
used.

.SH "COPYRIGHT"

Copyright (C) 1996--2012 Anton Kokalj


This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at
your option) any later version.  You should have received a copy of
the GNU General Public License along with this program; if not, write
to the Free Software Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place - Suite 330,
Boston, MA 02111-1307, USA.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.

