.TH xcrysden 1 "February 7, 2012" "XCrySDen" "XCrySDen" 

.SH NAME
xcrysden \- crystalline and molecular structure visualizer

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B xcrysden 
.RI [ special-options ]
.br
.B  xcrysden 
.RI [ special-options ] 
\fIformat-options\fR
\fIfile\fR|\fIdirectory\fR

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBXCrySDen\fR is a crystalline and molecular structure visualisation
program, which aims at display of isosurfaces and contours, which can
be superimposed on crystalline structures and interactively rotated
and manipulated.

.SH SPECIAL OPTIONS

.TP 4
\fB\-h 
.PD 0 
.TP 
\fB\-\-help
Display help message.


.TP 
\fB\-v
.PD 0
.TP 
\fB\-\-version
Display program version information.

.TP
\fB\-u \fIid\fR 
.PD 0
.TP 
\fB\-\-use\fR \fIid\fR 
Load XCrySDen embedded into container window with window-ID=\fIid\fR.

.TP
\fB\-r \fIdim
.PD 0
.TP
\fB\-\-reducedim \fIdim\fR
Reduce periodic dimension of XSF file to \fIdim\fR. Must be specified
before \fB\-\-xsf\fR option, e.g., \fBxcrysden \-r\fR 2 \fB\-\-xsf \fIfile\fR.


.TP
\fB\-c \fIfile\fR
.PD 0
.TP
\fB\-\-custom \fIfile\fR
Load custom\-definitions from a specified file (the syntax is that of
\fB~/.xcrysden/custom\-definitions\fR).

.TP
\fB\-a \fIfile\fR
.PD 0
.TP
\fB\-\-attributes \fIfile\fR
Load attributes from file. The format of the attributes file is the
following:

        \fBELEMENTCOLOR
        \fIatomic-number1   red1 blue1 green1
        atomic-number2   red2 blue2 green2
        \fR...
        \fBELEMENTRADIUS
        \fIatomic-number1   radius1
        atomic-number2   radius2
        \fR...


.TP 
\fB\-l \fIfile\fR
.PD 0
.TP
\fB\-\-lights \fIfile\fR
Load lights parameters from XCrySDen's lights formatted file.


.SH FORMAT OPTIONS

.TP 4
\fB\-\-xsf \fIfile\fR 
Load structure from XCrySDen's-Structure-File (XSF) formatted file.

.TP
\fB\-\-animxsf \fIfile\fR
.PD 0
.TP
\fB\-\-axsf \fIfile\fR   
Load structres from Animated-XCrySDen's-Structure-File (AXSF)
formatted file.

.TP
.PD 1
\fB\-\-bxsf \fIfile\fR 
Load bands from BXSF (Band-XSF) file and visualize Fermi Surface.
	
.TP 
\fB\-\-xmol \fIfile\fR
.PD 0
.TP
\fB\-\-xyz \fIfile\fR   
Load structure from XYZ formatted file.

.TP
\fB\-\-pdb \fIfile\fR    
Load structure from PDB formatted file.

.TP
\fB\-\-gzmat \fIfile\fR 
Load structure from Gaussian Z-matrix (requires Open-Babel program).

.TP
\fB\-\-gaussian_out \fIfile\fR
.PD 0
.TP
\fB\-\-gxx_out \fIfile\fR
.PD 0
.TP
\fB\-\-g98_out \fIfile\fR
Load structure from Gaussian output file. Only single point
calculation and optimization run is supported so far. For the
optimization run it is possible to render all the structures that were
produced during the run.

.TP
\fB\-\-cube \fIfile\fR
.PD 0
.TP
\fB\-\-gXX_cube \fIfile\fR
.PD 0
.TP
\fB\-\-g98_cube \fIfile\fR
Load structure from Gaussian cube file. The cube file should be
produced with the Cube=Cards option. Only scalar cube files are
supported, that is, Cube=(Cards,Density) or Cube=(Cards,Orbitals) or
Cube=(Cards,Potential). Refer to GAUSSIAN manual for the meaning of
this keywords.

                
.TP
\fB\-\-crystal_inp \fIfile\fR
Load structure from CRYSTAL (\fIhttp://http://www.crystal.unito.it/\fR) input file.


.TP\fB
\-\-crystal_f9 \fIfile\fR
Load structure from CRYSTAL (\fIhttp://http://www.crystal.unito.it/\fR) fortran unit 9.


.TP
\fB\-\-wien_struct \fIfilehead\fR|\fIfile\fR|\fIdirectory\Fr
Load structure from WIEN2k (\fIhttp://www.wien2k.at/\fR) struct-file,
where:

    \fIfilehead\fR = name of struct file without \fB.struct\fR extension,
    \fIfile\fR = filename,
    \fIdirectory\fR = name of case directory.      


.TP
\fB\-\-wien_kpath \fIdirectory\fR|\fIstruct-file\fR
Read \fIstruct\fR file and render first Brillouin zone with special
k-points. K-path can be selected interactively by mouse-clicking the
special k-points.  User must specify \fIEMIN\fR and \fIEMAX\fR
energies and total number of k-points along the path. This number is
merely an estimation of total number of k-points, since XCrySDen tries
to get very uniform sampling of k-points along the path (don't specify
WIEN2k maximum allowed number of k-points, since XCrySDen maight
generate few points more).


.TP
\fB\-\-wien_renderdensity \fIdirectory\fR
Read \fIstruct\fR, \fIoutput\fR, and \fIrho\fR files and renders
crystalline structure and precomputed charge density.


.TP
\fB\-\-wien_density \fIdirecory\fR
Either 2D or 3D region for charge density calculation is interactively
chosen by mouse-clicking. XCrySDen generates \fIin5\fR file(s),
calculates and renders charge density either as isolines/colorplanes
(2D) or isosurfaces (3D).


.TP
\fB\-\-wien_fermisurface \fIdirectory\fR
Pop-up a task window for Fermi surface creation.
After several steps the Fermi surface is (hopefully)
drawn as 3D isosurface.


.TP
\fB\-\-fhi_inpini \fIfile\fR
Load structure from FHI98MD \fBinp.ini\fP formated file.


.TP
\fB\-\-fhi_coord \fIfile\fR
Load structure from FHI98MD \fBcoord.out\fR formated file.


.TP
\fB\-\-pwi 
.PD 0 
.TP
\fB\-\-pw_inp \fIfile\fR
Load structure from \fBpw.x input\fR file. \fBpw.x\fR is a
pseudopotential planewave program of the Quantum-ESPRESSO distribution
(\fIhttp://www.quantum-espresso.org/\fR).

.TP
\fB\-\-pwo
.PD 0 
.TP
\fB\-\-pw_out \fIfile\fR
Load structure from \fBpw.x output\fR file. \fBpw.x\fR is a
pseudopotential planewave program of the Quantum-ESPRESSO distribution
(\fIhttp://www.quantum-espresso.org/\fR).


.TP
\fB\-s \fIscript\fR
.PD 0 
.TP
\fB\-\-script \fIscript\fR
Load script from file containing Tcl script.



.SH "SEE ALSO"

Fore more information about \fBXCrySDen\fR, see:
.br
\fIhttp://www.xcrysden.org/\fR. 

Further documentation is available at:
.br
\fIhttp://www.xcrysden.org/Documentation.html\fR.



.SH "COPYRIGHT"

Copyright (C) 1996--2012 Anton Kokalj


This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at
your option) any later version.  You should have received a copy of
the GNU General Public License along with this program; if not, write
to the Free Software Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place - Suite 330,
Boston, MA 02111-1307, USA.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.

